[C++] Add Protocol and websocket documentation (#174)
kuzzleio/documentation-V2: src/sdk-reference/cpp/1/protocol/send/index.md

---
layout: sdk.html.hbs
title: send

> description: Base method to send API query to Kuzzle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Sends a query to the Kuzzle API
```

---

# send

> Base method used to send queries to Kuzzle, following the [API Documentation]({{ site_base_path }}api/1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sends a query to the [Kuzzle API]({{ site_base_path }}api/1).
```

## Signature

```cpp
virtual kuzzleio::kuzzle_response* send(const std::string& query, kuzzleio::query_options *options, const std::string& request_id) = 0;
```

## Arguments

| Argument  | Type             | Description
| --------- | ---------------- | ------------------------
| `query` | <pre>const std::string&</pre> | API request
| `options` | <pre>kuzzleio::query_options*</pre>  | Additional query options

> | `request_id` | <pre>const std::string&</pre> | the request_id of the request if you want to set one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `request_id` | <pre>const std::string&</pre> | Optional request identifier
```

### **request**

> Properties required for the Kuzzle API can be set in the [kuzzle_request](https://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-go/blob/1.x/internal/wrappers/headers/kuzzlesdk.h#L51) struct.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters required by the Kuzzle API can be set in the [kuzzle_request](https://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-go/blob/1.x/internal/wrappers/headers/kuzzlesdk.h#L51) struct.
```

Reviewer: Also: broken link

> The following properties are the most common.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following properties are the most commonly encountered:
```

> | Property     | Type         | Description                                                        | Required |

Reviewer: The `required` column is obsolete and should be removed

| ------------ | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- |
| `controller` | <pre>const char*</pre> | Controller name                                                    | yes      |
| `action`     | <pre>const char*</pre> | Action name                                                        | yes      |

> | `body`       | <pre>const char*</pre> | JSON query body string for this action                             | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `body`       | <pre>const char*</pre> | Query body, in JSON format                            | no       |
```

> | `index`      | <pre>const char*</pre> | Index name for this action                                         | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `index`      | <pre>const char*</pre> | Data index name                                         | no       |
```

> | `collection` | const char\* | Collection name for this action                                    | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `collection` | <pre>const char*</pre> | Collection name for this action                                    | no       |
```

> | `collection` | <pre>const char*</pre> | Collection name for this action                                    | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `collection` | <pre>const char*</pre> | Data collection name                                    | no       |
```

> | `id`         | const char\* | id for this action                                                 | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `id`         | <pre>const char*</pre> | id for this action                                                 | no       |
```

> | `id`         | <pre>const char*</pre> | id for this action                                                 | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id`         | <pre>const char*</pre> | Unique identifier                                                 | no       |
```

> | `volatiles`  | const char\* | JSON string representing additional information to send to Kuzzle | no       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `volatiles`  | <pre>const char*</pre> | JSON string representing additional information to send to Kuzzle | no       |
```

> | `volatiles`  | <pre>const char*</pre> | JSON string representing additional information to send to Kuzzle | no       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `volatiles`  | <pre>const char*</pre> | Additional, non-meaningful information (JSON format) | no       |
```

### **options**

> A pointer to a [query_option](https://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-go/blob/1.x/internal/wrappers/headers/kuzzlesdk.h#L169) containing additional query options

Reviewer: broken link

```suggestion
A pointer to a [query_option](https://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-go/blob/1.x/internal/wrappers/headers/kuzzlesdk.h#L169) containing additional query options.
```

> The following properties are the most common.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following properties are the most common:
```

| Property   | Type    | Description
| ---------- | ------- | --------------------------------- |

> | `queuable` | bool(true) | Make this request queuable or not |

Reviewer: Obsolete description, should not be used anymore.

```suggestion
| `queuable` | bool(true) | If true, queues the request during downtime, until connected to Kuzzle again
```

### **request_id**

> A string representing the request Id.

Reviewer: Should reuse the description provided in the API documentation:

```suggestion
User-defined request identifier. Kuzzle does not guarantee that responses are sent back in the same order than queries are made: use that field to link responses to their query of origin.
```

## Return

> A [kuzzle_response](https://github.com/kuzzleio/sdk-go/blob/1.x/internal/wrappers/headers/kuzzlesdk.h#L445) containing the Kuzzle API response. See the [API Documentation]({{ site_base_path }}api/1/kuzzle-response).

Reviewer: broken link

> The following properties are the most common.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following properties are the most common:
```
